---
title: Assignment 1
layout: doc
---

# Assignment 1

### Design Question
For this assignment, I wanted to explore how to design a social media that is safer for younger people (between 10 to 18 years old). 

### Interview Summaries
For my interviews, I chose my sister who is currently 18 and one of my friends who is like 22. I chose this two mainly because they have different personalities (one being more outgoing and extroverted while the other one is more introverted) and priorities compared to me and each other, I think it will be valuable to compare their experiences. Furthermore, I also wanted to know their experiences using social media like Facebook, Instagram, etc. when they were younger and so both of my interviewees are relatvely young.

#### Interview #1 (Sister)
In the interview, I talked about which kinds of social media she used when she was younger. Her first social media was Youtube when she was 7 years old and remained her only social media until she was 14. In that time, she only watched the content of the videos which ranged from Minecraft to drawing tutorials. However, she didn't comment on these videos or interact with the youtuber's community/fandom. She mostly used Youtube for entertainment and she didn't feel necessary to comment which I found surprising given that Youtuber's promote their socials and try to engage with the viewer outside videos. Now, there was an instance where she saw innapropiate content on the website when it wasn't regulated back then. She didn't understand what the content was about until later on when she was older, and she felt that might have affected her. I didn't dig deeper into this as it was a very touchy subject for her. She remained only using Youtube until she was 14 around the Covid Pandemic/Quarantine. From there, she started using Instagram, Twitch, Twitter and Discord as she wanted to post her fanart about Captain Sparklez and follow his streams. There was a negative interaction where she had someone DM'd her unsolicited and innapropiate messages after her first post in Instagram. Apart from that interaction she didn't have any interactions of that type ever again and was able to enjoy these mediums. 

Around this time, she got invited to a small Discord server through chatting on these streams and she interacted with the server members mainly about Captain Sparklez, art, Minecrat, etc. One interesting observation I had is that this server had strict rules on not sharing names, age and personal details mostly anonymous, but she was aware there were members who were in their 20s. Still, this didn't impact her enjoyment and company of the Discord server, and she felt that it helped her better her social skills. Now, as the pandemic started to slow down and things returned to normal, she started using social media less and less and focused more on school friendships and such. It was interesting seeing that social media served more as a replacement for social interaction, especially during the pandemic where everyone was isolated. Another observation was that she used Twitter to be informed and, in her words, "to be aware of the news around the world and her circle of streamers". Sometimes she felt anxious and/or stressed reading this type of content, but she felt it was good for her to know about what was happening. 

#### Interview #2 (Friend)
In this interview, I asked about his experiences using social media when he was younger. His first social media was Facebook at 9 years old and he mostly used it to talk with his friends and reach out to gaming friends. In particular, he was a part of a clan from a game called TDP4:Team Battle from where he got invited in game. He was 9 years old when he joined the group but there were older than him, even some people in their 30s. Still, almost all his interactions in the group were related to the game only. However, there were conversations between other members older than him about stuff outside the game which he actively avoided. In his words, "I knew that they were older than me looking at their profiles and I knew not to talk to people older than me as it was dangerous." Later, he stopped using Facebook overall as he hung out more with his classmates and friends. In general, he just used social media to talk to his friends in school and neighborhood. In a way, he said that "I don't get into social media if I needed it and I only wanted to talk to my friends which I could use SMS for." One final note I observed is that he only started using other social media like Instagram and Discord during quarantine which makes sense as he was not able to normally socialize outside.

### Design Opportunities
After doing these interviews, I came up with these design opportunities I want to pursue:

- One thing I want to do is to embed lessons on how to deal with the dangers you can find on the Internet, especially for young people. As you can see for both interviewees, they were aware of talking to people on the internet and possible obstacles/dangers they could face which made their experiences better or at least not as damaging as it could be. In a way, I want to make aware to the user that they are in a place full of strangers who might or might not have the best interests and try to mitigate these issues in the platform.

- Another design opportunity I want to explore is to make it so is easier to create small tight-knit groups, like how you have your own group of friends in school in which you share the same interests. Both of my interviewees were admitted to groups either for gaming or for being part of a fandom and were able to have good interactions. You could also learn from other members like how my sister was able to practice her social skills. In a way, I think being able to form closer connections makes for a more positive environment compared to bigger spaces like Twitter and Facebook.

- Another opportunity I would like to try is to limit the amount of inappropriate content and messages that can be sent to the platform. Especially, for younger people who don't know this kind of concepts and situations, which was in the case of my sister, and be adversely affected. Social media should be a safe place for which you should be able to share what you are excited about and talk to people who are excited about the same thing.